---
title: Advice to the next level
tags: leadership
---

I will change my company soon. 
The follow is to record some advice from more senior engineers and leaders. 

<!--more-->

# from one senior staff:
- pay attention to the project scope and complexity
- some project with uncertainty, some big projects that you need time to create impact, you need time to adjust
- once you have the big project, you can complete the rest in one shot, commit interviews, review 
- don't afraid to try multiple times, if the first time fails, you will know the gap and the target is clear
  - this echo with another staff when he mentioned that his first try fails
  - and after that he knows where the gap is, the gap is that there is no concrete use case yet
  - so he spend time on the concrete use case for the rest two quarters without thinking about anything else
- follow examples, see how other senior engineers achieve the goal. watch once, and you do it once, then you know how to do it the next time, even though the first time you may fail.
- 宁愿不礼貌地直接，也不要礼貌地不直接
  - do not be afraid of conflict, there may be intentions but you can always find some way to remedy. instead of always avoid the conflict
    - some practical advice is always send a thank you note after a collaboration. So the next time when you start a conversation, what people see is this note. 
- spend more time, take more initiative
- manage up, see what you can do that can fulfill the managers' need 

# from a senior manager
- big picture view
  - separate feasibility
- be tech lead, have long term view
- focus on architecture
  - note a bug fix
  - not a task
  - not an ORK
- things to seek forward
  - first do not care about the time needed to achieve the goal
  - thinking about the scope, and then think about feasibility
  - how to put your idea into a one year harizon
  - how to make a project out of your idea

# from a staff, my tach lead
- start small, first mentor an intern, then one engineer, then more
- think from the user's perspective, custom focus
  - what problems they try to solve
  - why they need the feature, or model
  - how this can be useful
- large team collaboration
- example of another senior staff on Lix
  - take time to understand their use case, and map back to Frame concept

# from a staff in another company 
- more senior engineers, they are confident. Sometimes their idea works, sometimes not. But when they present, it feels like they know everything. 
- you can know a lot, or you can pretend you know a lot. 